- [Instructor] When processing requests,
servlets respond with dynamic content,
meaning the response content may be different
for each request.
This contrasts with pure web servers
that host static content that never changes.
Let's create some dynamic content from our catalog servlet
within this lesson.
To help us out, I've positioned three files
within our project.
I'm going to have to do this throughout the course
in order to keep us focused on Java EE.
When I do, I'll be sure to let you know
and you can find the files within the exercise files
for the lesson.
The first file I added was a catalog class
and this class contains a map which basically holds
the entire product catalog for the H+ sports store.
You'll notice that the maps values are of type catalog item
which is the next class I added.
This is a simple POJO that represents an item in the catalog
and it has three fields.
Name, manufacturer and SKU.
And then the final file I added was a form.htl file
and within this HTML file,
you will find a form that can be used
to create a new catalog item
and have that item be placed into the product catalog.
So, we're going to start our work here.
First, you'll notice that the form contains a control
for each of the fields on the catalog item.
So, we have the product name, the manufacturer and the SKU.
Now, we need to post this form and have the request
go to our servlet.
So, to do that, we need to add the action attribute
to the form and then we specify the path to the servlet
which is the name of the servlet, catalog servlet.
So, this catalog servlet string is going to be added
to the end of the request URL
and because we are using a post method,
that is going to map to our servlet.
So, our web servlet annotation is going to match the path
in the URL which will cause the catalog servlet
to process the request.
And then because we're performing a post, our do post method
will be invoked.
So, let's go ahead and we're going to add some logic
within our do post method.
The first thing we're going to do is pull the name
from the request and assign it to a string named, name.
We're going to do the same thing
for the manufacturer field as well.
So, we'll pull the manufacturer parameter from the request
and then assign it to a string named manufacturer
and then we can do the same for the SKU.
Okay, so we have collected the information
from the HTTP request.
Now, let's go ahead and use our catalog
to add an item to the catalog.
So, we're going to use the new operator and the constructor
and then we simply pass in the fields
that we assigned from the request.
Okay, so now we've added a catalog item
and it's time to start generating the response
back to the browser.
So, we're going to use our response
and the first thing we're going to do is set a header
on the response.
So, we're going to name the header, some header
and then we're going to give it a really generic value
of some header value.
And then the next thing we're going to do is add a cookie
to the response
and it's kind of the same way, we supply the name
which I'm going to name, some cookie
and then we provide the value
which will be some cookie value.
Okay, now that we've added a cookie and a header
to our response, let's go ahead and start generating
the actual response body.
So, we're going to use a printwriter
to send the content out in the response body
and we can grab the printwriter
by using the getwriter method on the response.
And then from here, we start to build out our markup
and we can send that markup out to the browser
using the println method.
And now, we need to basically write the mark-up within Java.
So, we'll open our HTML tag
then we're going to close our HTML tag
then we're going to add the head tag
and we can go ahead and close the head tag.
The next tag we'll have to add will be the body tag
and then we're going to close the body tag.
Inside of the body tag, we're going to go ahead
and create a table so we'll add that tag and close it.
And then within our table, we're going to add a row
for each of our inventory items.
So, I'm going to go ahead and iterate through
the items within our catalog
and then for each item in the catalog,
we're going to generate a table row.
So, let's go ahead and create our table row
and then we'll close that tag out right away.
And then from here, we're going to create a table cell
and we'll go ahead and close that tag
and then we're going to use the print method
in order to write the name of the item
in our table cell.
There we go.
Okay, so with that in place,
we are generating dynamic content that's going to
be sent out from the servlet in the body of the response
using the writer on the response.
So, you can see generating HTML within Java,
it is a little bit tedious and we'll see some solutions
for that coming up
but let's go ahead and run this application.
So, I'm going to fire it up on the server.
There we see our server starting
and we'll grab the URL.
I'm then going to go to a browser
and let's go ahead and enter a new product.
So, the product we'll enter,
let's say it's going to be Vitamins
and then the manufacturer will be Great Vitamins
and we'll just enter an SKU of 123.
Okay, now I'm going to go ahead
and open up the developer tools
so that we can take a look at this request.
There you can see that we did generate the HTML
and if we look at the elements,
you can see our table as well as our table row
and then the vitamins content generated.
And then if we go over to the network tab,
you can see that within the headers,
we were able to send the cookie as well as our header value
in the response.
So, this was a look at how we can generate dynamic content
with a servlet.
We generated a lot of HTML markup within the servlet
and saw how to add cookies and headers to a response.